Now, if we think about Jesus' words in today's text,
give us today our bread for this day,
there's really indirect counsel against materialism.
See, Jesus didn't say to pray for our daily meat
or some other luxury food item.
He didn't even say that we should pray for a month's supply of bread.
Pray for and be content with our bread for the day.
But as we know, a sizable number of Jehovah's people today
are being distracted by materialism.
So, since this is not an imagined,
but it's a real danger to Jehovah's people,
let's discuss the theme, beware of the power of materialism.
I recall the story of a sister and her two sons
who were exiled to Siberia.
Now, they were very poor.
In fact, they were so poor at times
they had to literally eat the bark off trees to survive.
But they were happy because they were all in the truth.
But years passed and the three of them had opportunity
to immigrate to the United States.
The two sons got excellent jobs, high paying jobs,
as machinas, but in their material prosperity,
both sons fell out of the truth.
The sister tearfully remarked,
I would rather be back in Siberia,
eating the bark off trees to survive,
but with my two sons still in the truth.
Well, numerous other experiences could be related
that illustrate the power of materialism.
In fact, it may well be that Satan's most effective trap
against Jehovah's people in these last days is materialism.
But now you might be thinking,
well, isn't sexual immorality by far the number one cause
for disfellowshipping?
That's true.
But we don't have figures for ones who fall away to materialism.
They're not disfellowshipped.
And furthermore, how many who succumbed as sexual immorality
were first weakened spiritually by materialism?
Well, at least we can say that materialism
is one of Satan's most effective tools
are traps against Jehovah's people today.
And no wonder that humans and Satan's world
are bombarded with so many advertising messages designed
to make us want things, even if we don't need these things.
There was an awake magazine a while back
that discussed how that Americans may be bombarded
with up to 1,600 advertising messages every day.
Imagine that.
And none of us can feel we're immune to this pressure
that it can't happen to us.
It can happen to any of us.
We could slowly gradually begin to desire material things,
even things we don't really need.
In fact, that makes me think of the story.
A circuit overseer told many years ago I was a young teenager.
That was over 50 years ago.
He and his wife lived in a little trailer
they would park by the Kingdom Hall.
And he told one of his talks how he bought a drill
to do work on his trailer.
But then shortly after he bought this drill,
they came out with a reversible drill.
And he thought, well, you know, that'd be nice
to have a reversible drill.
It would be much easier to extract the drill bit
out of the hole, so he bought a reversible drill.
Shortly after that, they came out with a reversible drill
had a little light on it.
You pull the trigger, a little light would come on.
And he thought, you know, that would be really nice.
My drill doesn't have a little light on it.
He was about ready to buy this latest model.
And then he said, wait a minute.
What am I doing?
How often am I going to be drilling at night?
But he told that to illustrate how that materialism
can get a hold on any of us.
He was being manipulated by Satan's system.
But now here's a question.
What Bible principles can help us avoid this deadly trap
materialism?
Let's discuss two.
Now there are many others.
But these two can really help us.
Let's go to Micah chapter 7.
And let's get this first Bible principle really can help us.
Micah 7 verse 7.
But as for me, I will keep on the lookout for Jehovah.
Now notice, I will show a waiting attitude
for the God of my salvation.
My God will hear me.
Or the footnote, I will wait patiently.
See, are we willing to wait patiently on Jehovah?
This certainly applies to material things.
Jehovah, in effect, is telling us today
I'm giving you a spiritual paradise right now.
Be content with that.
Don't try to get your physical paradise now.
I'll give you that later.
But the question is, are we willing to wait on Jehovah?
See, or do we in effect run ahead of him
and try to acquire physical paradise
conditions for ourselves right now
at the expense of spiritual activity?
Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verse 1.
There's an appointed time for everything.
Well, Jehovah's appointed our time,
especially these last days of the last days,
shortly before the last day of this old system,
not as a time to seek and spend time
acquiring physical comforts,
but rather as a time to beautify the spiritual paradise
and help others join us in this paradise.
No wonder, at 1 Peter 1 1 and 2 11,
God's people are described as temporary residents.
And it's a real protection if we think of ourselves that way.
Temporary residents.
Now, the illustration has been used
of staying in a hotel room.
Now, you know when you're in a hotel room,
you're a temporary resident.
You might do a few things to make your stay more comfortable.
You might rearrange the chairs.
You might reposition the lamps.
You might buy some flowers, put it on a table.
You might spray some air freshener.
But you would never rip off the wallpaper
and install new wallpaper.
You'd never rip up the carpet,
install new carpet or tile.
You wouldn't buy new furniture.
You'd keep it simple, because you know you're going to be checking out.
Now, even if you ended up staying a few months in that hotel room,
especially if you didn't know exactly when you're going to have to check out,
you would still keep it simple.
Well, that describes our situation.
We're going to check out of this old system.
We're going to check into the new world.
We don't know exactly when, but you know us soon.
So we keep it simple.
We're temporary residents.
But now, let's get a second Bible principle.
It can help us avoid materialism.
Let's go to Luke chapter 10.
And Jesus' words here can help us identify this second Bible principle.
Luke 10 verse 42, the B part Jesus said,
for her part, Mary chose the good portion.
And it will not be taken away from her.
You notice she chose the good portion, the footnote, the best portion.
Now, we know the story.
Martha chose physical activity.
She chose working in the kitchen.
Mary chose spiritual activity, listening to Jesus.
Jesus correctly identified who made the best choice.
Who chose the best portion?
Well, similarly with us.
When we choose storing up treasure in heaven, over storing up treasure on the earth,
we are choosing the best portion.
How so?
Well, if one thing, it brings to you, hope is blessing.
And that results in happiness.
You know what Proverbs 10, 22 says,
it is the blessing of Jehovah, that makes one rich.
And he has no pain with it.
In contrast, 1 Timothy 6, 9, and 10,
speak about how those that go out for money, material things,
they can end up stabbing themselves all over with many pains.
Now, you're not a contrast.
Blessing from Jehovah with no pain,
stabbing yourself all over with many pains.
Well, we're choosing the best portion when we go for spiritual,
a heavenly treasure.
Now, another reason, heavenly treasure will result in preservation into the new world.
If necessary, by means of the resurrection.
Proverbs 11, 4, wealth will be of no benefit on the day of fury,
but righteousness is what will rescue from death.
So, remembering those two Bible principles can really help us.
Remember that we are to wait on Jehovah.
And he says, spiritual paradise now, physical paradise later,
we wait on him.
And when we do that, that second principle,
we're choosing the best portion.
And we're going to be happy we're going to get Jehovah's blessings.
And if we do this, then like Moses,
we'll choose treasures greater than the treasures of Egypt.
We'll be able to do what Jesus said to pray for and be content with our daily bread.